[release] v8.11.2 (#19519)
mui/mui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 8.11.2

_Sep 10, 2025_

> We'd like to extend a big thank you to the 13 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'd like to extend a big thank you to the 12 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:
```

- 🐞 Bugfixes
- 📚 Documentation improvements

Special thanks go out to the community members for their valuable contributions:
@ludvigeriksson

The following are all team members who have contributed to this release:
@alexfauquette, @bernardobelchior, @brijeshb42, @flaviendelangle, @Janpot, @LukasTy, @MBilalShafi, @noraleonte, @rita-codes, @romgrk, @siriwatknp

### Data Grid

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@8.11.2`

> - [DataGrid] Allow to opt out of row selection exclude model (#19423) @MBilalShafi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Allow opting out of the exclude row selection model (#19423) @MBilalShafi
```

> - [DataGrid] Fix column dropdown menu "Unpin" text alignment (#19462) @MBilalShafi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Fix column dropdown menu text alignment for the "Unpin" menu item (#19462) @MBilalShafi
```

> - [DataGrid] Fix indeterminate select all state with exclude model (#19466) @MBilalShafi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Fix indeterminate state for "Select all" checkbox with exclude model (#19466) @MBilalShafi
```

- [DataGrid] Fix styled API arguments error (#19460) @MBilalShafi
- [DataGrid] Fix `stringify()` for theme objects (#19427) @romgrk

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@8.11.2` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid@8.11.2`.

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@8.11.2` [![premium](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg-link 'Premium plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@8.11.2`, plus:

> - [DataGridPremium] Fallback to the regular reorder method for plain data (#19467) @MBilalShafi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGridPremium] Fallback to the regular reorder method for plain data (#19467) @MBilalShafi
- [DataGridPremium] Fix showing `0` as total aggregation value when aggregation position is set to `null` for row groups (#19515) @cherniavskii
```

### Date and Time Pickers

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@8.11.2`

- [pickers] Gracefully handle `textField.slotProps` (#18980) @LukasTy

> - [pickers] Improve hour and minute placement in `DateTimePicker` (#19227) @MBilalShafi

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [pickers] Improve hour and minute placement in Date Time Picker (#19227) @MBilalShafi
```

> - [pickers] Use `calendarState.currentMonth` in `MonthCalendar` when available (#19073) @LukasTy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [pickers] Use `calendarState.currentMonth` in Month Calendar when available (#19073) @LukasTy
```

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@8.11.2` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-date-pickers@8.11.2`.

### Charts

#### `@mui/x-charts@8.11.2`

- [charts] Fix highlight regression (#19486) @alexfauquette
- [charts] Improve code reuse in `ChartsXAxis` and `ChartsYAxis` (#19198) @bernardobelchior

> - [l10n] Add svSE locale (#19489) @ludvigeriksson

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [l10n] Add Swedish (sv-SE) locale (#19489) @ludvigeriksson
```

#### `@mui/x-charts-pro@8.11.2` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-charts@8.11.2`.

### Tree View

#### `@mui/x-tree-view@8.11.2`

> - [TreeView] Do not mutate `props.items` in the `getItemTree` method (#19483) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [TreeView] Do not mutate `props.items` in the `getItemTree()` method (#19483) @flaviendelangle
```
